The Age of Mobile Apps
	
A mobile application, also referred to as a mobile app or simply an app, is a computer program
or software application designed to run on a mobile device such as a phone, tablet, or watch. 
			
Apps were originally intended for productivity assistance such as email, calendar, and contact databases, but the public demand for apps caused rapid expansion into other areas such as mobile games, factory automation, GPS and location-based services, order-tracking, and ticket purchases, so that there are now millions of apps available.

Here is a quote from TechAhead website:
The word ‘App’ was voted to be the word of the year by American Dialect Society in 2010. This shows how apps became popular after the launch of the App Store. Apps have made everything just a tap away. We are dependent on apps to communicate to one another, to keep everything organized and for entertainment too. Moreover, there are number of businesses based on the social media apps.
Making Your App a Success
The apps market is pretty saturated. So, is it still worthwhile creating an app?
Below are some tips to make your app successful in a saturated market.
Make it Useful to your Target Users
It does not matter how great your app is. If it is not useful, it is dead in the water.
To make your app useful, it should (be):
Entertaining: Make sure to provide content that your target market will find entertaining.
Addresses a pain point: What pain points do your clients have? What information do they need? How can you address these issues with your app?
An app needs to be valuable to your target market so that they’ll keep using it. What form that value needs to take depends on the target market. Why not ask them what they’d like to see?
Unique
There are millions of apps out there. If your app is just a copy of another, don’t bother. It must offer something unique. There is a saying, There’s an app for that. You want yours to offer something that no one else’s can.
Easy to Use
How many people would be willing to take the time to learn how to use a complicated app? If you want your app to become popular, make it as intuitive to use as possible.
Flawless Operation
Even though you could upload bug fixes and patches later, it may be too late. How many times have you downloaded an app only to find that it doesn’t work as advertised? Do you wait around for the bugs to be fixed or do you delete it to make room on your phone? Keep your app simple and make sure that it runs flawlessly.
Cross-Platform
Advances in information technology imply that there are many platforms to choose from – Mac, Windows, Linux, Android-based operating system, iOS-based system, and so on. For mobile apps, it is hard to find an app that will work across Android and iOS. The best solution to this problem is to ensure that you have a working app for both systems.
Most Popular Mobile Apps
Top 21 Most Used (and downloaded) Mobile Apps
Most Used Apps in the Wold by Amit Gupta December 27, 2019
WhatsApp
Facebook
Facebook Messenger
Instagram
Snapchat
UC Browser
Uber
YouTube
SHAREit
Bitmoji
Google Search
Google Play
Google Maps
Gmail
iCloud
Amazon Mobile
Twitter
Netflix app
Google+
Pinterest
Google Pay (Tez)
Mobile Apps Glossary
Android
Android is Google’s mobile operating system.
iOS
iOS is Apple’s official mobile operating system and is supported on all iPhone, iPod and iPad devices.
Mobile Apps
Mobile apps, as opposed to browser apps, are developed specifically and exclusively for use in mobile devices.
Native Apps
A native application (native app) is an application program that has been developed for use on a particular platform or device, e.g., iOS (Apple’s mobile operating system), and Android (Google’s mobile operating system).
Hybrid Apps
Hybrid apps leverage native technology for each platform (iOS and Android) but include web views (HTML) content within the app. This is a useful way for some companies to develop a single app that works on both Android and iOS.
Footer
The HTML address element defines contact information (author/owner) of a document or article.

Written by Sam.
Visit us at:
Douglascollege.ca
700 Royal Avenue
New Westminster